Niccolo Machiaveli's "The Prince"


"And there is nothing that wears out faster than generosity; even as you practice it, you lose the means of practicing it, and you become poor andcontemptible or (in the course of escaping poverty) rapacious and hateful. The thing above all against which a prince must protect himself is being contemptible and hateful; generosity leads to both. Thus, it's much wiser to put up with the reputation of being a miser, which brings you shame without hate, than to be forced - just because you want to appear generous - into a reputation for rapacity, which brings shame on you and hate along with it."

p. 47, Chapter 16

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Machiavelli's thoughts on disarming a populace

But when you disarm them, you begin to alienate them; you advertise your mistrust of them, which may come from your suspecting them of cowardice or treachery; both these insinuations will raise hatred against you. And since you cannot remain unarmed yourself, you will have to turn to mercenary armies, the quality of which was discussed above: even if they were good, they couldn't possibly defend you from powerful enemies and treacherous subjects. Therefore, as I've said, a new prince in a new kingdom has always armed the citizens; the histories are full of examples. But when a prince acquires a new state and attaches it, like a fresh graft, on his old state , then the new acquisition must be disarmed, except for those who actively hlped you acquire it; even those people, as time and occasions allow, must be rednered soft and compliant. Things have to be arranged so that all the arms in your new state are in the hands of your own soldiers, who used to live in your own state, under your eye.

p. 60, Chapter 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Macchiavelli on the benefits of letting men practice their trades in peace without hinderance from the state

A prince ought also to show himself an admirer of talent, giving recognition to men of ability and honoring those who excel in a particular art. Moreover, he should encourage his citizens to ply their callings in peace, whether in commerce, aggricultue, or in any other business. The man who improves his holdings should not be made to fear that they will be taken away from him; the man who opens up a branch of trade should not have to fear that he will be taxed out of existence. Instead, the prince should bestow prizes on the men who do these things, and on anyone else who takes the pains to enrich the city or state in some special way.

p. 65, Chapter 21
